2.4. Recruitment Module
2.4.1. The Recruitment Module shall allow information of prospective applicants to be recorded via data upload or online entry by prospective applicants or by relevant SIT officer(s). There should be an interface with the SIT website, providing a one-stop platform for prospective applicants to register their interest in SIT programmes, and obtain information on the programmes and upcoming events that are of interest to them.
2.4.2. The Recruitment Module shall maintain information about recruiters, SIT staff or agents involved in recruitment, including their role and type of prospective applicants they work with.
2.4.3. The Recruitment Module shall be able to generate different prospective applicant groups with corresponding mailing lists from the data recorded. These mailing lists may be created based on specific characteristics such as personal interests and academic backgrounds.
2.4.4. The Recruitment Module shall have the ability to organize activities (e.g. talks or workshops on Mechanical Engineering/ Robotics) that engage prospective applicants by matching their interest, academic background etc. (e.g. Diploma in Mechanical Engineering, A Levels) with SIT’s respective programme offering (e.g. Bachelor of Engineering in Mechanical Engineering, Mechatronics Engineering etc.)
2.4.5. The Recruitment Module shall be able to maintain an activity calendar containing recruitment and outreach activities (e.g. talks or workshops) with details such as start and end time, dates or location, and allow user to send email reminders to prospective applicants (i.e. those in our mailing database). All details of these activities shall be searchable by a query function.
2.4.6. The Recruitment Module shall allow SIT designated officers to plan recruitment activities (e.g. create activities in a planning calendar in advance) for different SIT programmes and different categories of prospective applicants (such as Polytechnic students, A-level students, NS-men etc.), and cater for online registration of events.
2.4.7. The Recruitment Module shall coordinate scheduling of recruitment activities for different SIT programmes and different categories of prospective applicants (such as Polytechnic students, A-level students, NS-men etc.) to prevent clashes in events with overlapping prospective applicant categories. [Optional]
2.4.8. The Recruitment Module shall have the ability to capture, maintain and analyserecruitment data for reporting purposes. It should be able to generate reports which include but are not limited to : Number of attendees of an outreach talk session by Polytechnic, diploma and Year-of-study; number of online registrations for Open House by Polytechnic and Year- of-study.
2.4.9. The Recruitment Module shall allow the user to generate management and operational reports, statistics, listing and mass-email notifications (configurable templates) based on SIT recruitment data.
2.4.10. The Recruitment Module shall allow SIT to analyse/compute the success of the recruitment and admission strategies. For example, the number of attendees at an event, who attended SIT’s events (such as Open House, outreach talks) and actually submitted an application for SIT courses; for these successful buy-in cases, which year-of-study were they when they attended our outreach events? (E.g. were they in their final year of study in the Polytechnic or did we win their loyalty when they were in Year 1 or Year 2) etc.
2.4.11. The Recruitment Module shall allow recruitment officers to send emails (configurable templates) to prospective applicants by group or individual based on user-configured parameters (e.g. Polytechnic, diploma, year-of-study).
2.4.12. The Recruitment Module shall allow the ability to extract data in formats such as comma- separated values (CSV), text, excel and etc.

2.5. Student Admissions Module
2.5.1. The Student Admissions Module shall allow SIT to record, maintain, process, print reports and keep track of application data for various types of SIT programmes or short courses. 
Online Application Function
2.5.2. The Student Admissions Module’s online application function shall allow applicants to apply for SIT programmes electronically via a, user-friendly and professional-looking web interface (aligned with SIT’s corporate identity). The online function shall record information including but not limited to:
(a) Applicants’ personal particulars
(b) Applicants’ contact information
(c) Upload and write a 300 word personal statement
(d) Applicants’ Academic Background
(e) Applicants’ Co-Curriculum Activities
(f) Applicants’ employment history
(g) Supplementary information
(h) Programme choices
2.5.3. Applicants’ academic background shall include declaration of the utilisation of tuition grants (TG) in previous institution of study. Applicants shall declare the following information:
(a) Name of previous institution of studies
(b) Qualification pursued or attained
(c) Number. of academic terms (semester/ trimester) in which a TG is utilised
(d) Number of modular credits utilised
2.5.4. The Student Admissions Module’s online application function shall check if an applicant has an existing applicant number (with robust security checks based on key identifiers to match the applicant with existing records). If a match is not found (i.e. new applicant), the function shall assign a unique applicant number and password to each applicant. The applicant number shall be generated based on SIT’s predefined format and formula (the system-generated applicant number series should cater for more than 22,000 applicants
per year). The applicant shall use his/her issued applicant number and password for subsequent entry into the online application system. The function should also cater for a robust and user-friendly feature in the event that users forget their passwords (with robust security questions) that does not require manual intervention by SIT at the backend for each request to reset passwords.
2.5.5. The Student Admissions Module’s online application function shall display SIT-configurable instructions and messages to applicants. The function shall allow applicants to acknowledge that they have read and/or agreed to the instructions and messages. The instructions and messages displayed to applicants via the online application function should be easily reconfigurable by SIT admissions (which may be amended on a needs- basis for each admissions exercise due to policy changes/ new admissions initiatives etc.)
2.5.6. The Student Admissions Module’s online application function shall check for duplicate applications based on a reasonable multi-tier check (e.g. applicant’s NRIC/ FIN/ Passport and date of birth). The function shall retrieve existing information of the applicant if a match is found. It should have a robust check to ensure that it is indeed the same applicant before displaying the information from previous application(s) of the existing applicant. The function should be able to highlight previous applications of Returning National Service men (or RNS) who have previously accepted SIT’s programme offers but are attempting to re-apply for another programme after fulfilling their National Service (NS) liabilities.
2.5.7. When NS-liable applicants key in their enlistment dates, the Student Admissions Module’s online application function shall auto-compute their potential admit-term (matriculation year) based on the enlistment date (i.e. two (2) years after enlistment date based on current NS duration).
2.5.8. The Student Admissions Module’s online application function shall be able to display different formats of application forms based on specific programmes selected by the applicants (e.g. some programmes have additional requirements for an online essay/portfolios upon application). The function shall allow applicants to constantly save their applications as drafts and return any number of times until all compulsory information is filled and the online form is ready to be submitted. This Module shall allow applicants to retrieve the submitted application to edit or update certain application details such as personal profiles (subject to SIT’s prevailing admissions policy) and attach new documents before the stipulated closing date.
2.5.9. The Student Admissions Module’s online application function shall be able to record details of applicants’ academic qualifications. Types of academic qualifications include but are not limited to ‘A’ Level, Polytechnic Diploma, ‘O’ Level, Sijil Pelajaran Malaysia (SPM) or Malaysian Certificate of Education examination, Sijil Tinggi Persekolahan Malaysia (STPM) or Malaysian Higher School Certificate examination, National University of Singapore (NUS) High School Diploma, International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma, Integrated Programme, Nanyang Academy of Fine Arts (NAFA), La Salle College of the Arts (LaSalle), the American High School Diploma, Scholastic Aptitude Test (SATS) I and SATS II, International English Language Testing System (IELTS) etc.
2.5.10. The Student Admissions Module’s online application function shall allow applicants to upload multiple personal and academic documents in formats specified by SIT.
2.5.11. The Student Admissions Module’s online application function shall allow applicants to apply for multiple programmes in a single application.
2.5.12. The Student Admissions Module’s online application function shall allow applicants to rank the programmes that they have applied for in order of preference.
2.5.13. The Student Admissions Module’s online application function shall provide a checklist and summary page to help applicants check the completeness of their applications. For incomplete submissions, the Module shall send regular automated email reminders to applicants to complete their application by the stipulated application deadline. The automated email reminders should be configurable by criteria such as outstanding items, email frequency and timeframe (e.g. exclude weekly reminders for outstanding 6th semester’s results during the earlier part of the application period when final-year polytechnic students have yet to receive their final results from the polytechnic).
2.5.14. The Student Admissions Module’s online application function shall allow applicants to preview their application forms online for verification before final submission. A save and print option shall also be available after submission of application. After submission, applicants may still access their submitted applications to have the option to print a summary of their application data (online form) from their completed applications.
2.5.15. The Student Admissions Module’s online application function shall allow applicants to make payment for application fees via various payment modes as specified by SIT. Payment modes include but are not limited to online banking, debit card and credit card. For online payments, the function shall be updated automatically the payment status upon successful completion of the transaction with record of the transaction ID, e.g. e-payment gateway reference identification . For offline payments, the Module shall automatically update or display payment status based on payment details uploaded in the Student Admissions Module’s Administration function. Payment statuses that should be maintained include “Paid”, “Outstanding” etc., which should be configurable by SIT designated officers.
2.5.16. An acknowledgement email is to be sent to the applicant upon successful submission of an application. The System should be able to generate email content from the information provided in the application (e.g. assigned applicant number, application date, programme choices, application fee amount and mode of payment), with additional information that is configurable by SIT (e.g. scholarship portal hyperlink, reminders to upload compulsory portfolio links and other outstanding documents within stipulated deadlines).
2.5.17. The Student Admissions Module’s online application function shall allow applicants to view their application status, application fee status as well as their document processing status via a web-interface. SIT Admissions Division shall be able to publish the official application status based on a configurable publish date. Hence, during SIT’s internal shortlisting exercise, applicants should not be able to view backend changes in status such as ‘shortlisted’, ‘rejected’, ‘interviewed’ made by relevant SIT officer(s) until the official date when application statuses can be viewed by the applicants.
2.5.18. The Student Admissions Module’s online application function shall allow applicants to accept, reject or request for change of dates in response to their interview invitation via an online facility. There should be an acknowledgement message (configurable) for the different types of responses, and a system-triggered prompt to the relevant SIT officer(s) for any request for change (the workflow should be configurable). There must be system- generated reports and queries that comply with all responses received (e.g. accept, decline) for the relevant SIT officer(s) to review.
2.5.19. The Student Admissions Module’s online application function shall allow applicants to appeal his/her application outcome. The function shall allow applicants to view their appeal status that will be updated by the relevant SIT officer(s) at various stages of processing via an online facility (web-interface).The Student Admissions Module’s online application function shall be able to send email reminders to returning NS-men (RNS) who have been offered a place in the year before their enrolment to SIT with reference to their admit-term (matriculation year). The admit-term (matriculation year) of NS-liable applicants can be populated at the point of application (2 years after enlistment date) or can be updated mmanually by the relevant SIT officer(s). These RNS who have previously been offered can then confirm their acceptance and return or defer their admission of programme that SIT has offered to them. The function shall be able to generate an national service (NS) disruption letter (configurable template) via online request upon receipt of their RNS confirmation notification before the year of matriculation date. There shall be a report to track changes to admit-term (matriculation year) for the RNS.